---
title: SEBD 2024 Keynotes Talks
---

 
<span id="gottlob"></span> 

<div  class="row justify-content-center">
          <div class="col-lg-4 col-md-6 text-center">
            <div class="service-box mt-5 mx-auto">
             <img class="mx-auto rounded" src="https://www.unical.it/media/medias/2023/Gottlob2.webp" style="height:200px;"/>
            </div>
          </div>
</div>
<br/>

## TBA
#### Georg Gottlob - University of Calabria, Italy

**Abstract:** TBA

**About the Speaker:**  Georg Gottlob is Professor at University of Calabria, Italy, that he joined in 2023. He has been Professor at the Oxford University Computer Science Department, a Fellow of St John's College, and Professor at TU Wien, Austria. He co-founded DeepReason.ai, a company providing software and services for reasoning on Big Data, and for building and maintaining enterprise knowledge graphs. In 2015 he co-founded Wrapidity Ltd, a company engaged in Web data extraction, which was recently acquired by Meltwater, a media intelligence company. Previously he co-founded Lixto, which was acquired in 2013 by McKinsey & Company.

Georg's research interests are databases and query languages, web information processing, constraint satisfaction problems, AI and computational logic. 

Georg Gottlob got his Engineer and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from TU Vienna, Austria in 1979 and 1981, respectively. Before he moved to Oxford in 2006, he was a Full Professor of Computer Science at TU (since 1988). Before that, he was affiliated with the Italian National Research Council in Genoa, Italy, and with the Politecnico di Milano, Italy. During the spring semester 1999 he was invited McKay Professor at UC Berkeley.

Georg received the Ada Lovelace Medal, the Wittgenstein Award, is an ACM Fellow, an ECCAI Fellow, a Fellow of the Royal Society, a member of the Austrian, German, and European Academies of Sciences. He chaired the Program Committees of IJCAI 2003 and ACM PODS 2000. He is a member of the editorial boards of several journals, e.g. JCSS and CACM. Gottlob is an ISI highly cited researcher.

[Georg Gottlob website](https://demacs.unical.it/storage/addressbook/gAAAAABly4trzs80Fic4fgFmoEBDPSIrT7K5MFJHYavxyev7Ho6vH9zkRgCGNwM9NaMlFPpvknaaFy7eA_LC4EmnBPr_L3t1DA==/)



<hr id="jagadish"> <!-- ------------------------------- -->

<div class="row justify-content-center">
          <div class="col-lg-4 col-md-6 text-center">
            <div class="service-box mt-5 mx-auto">
                <img class="mx-auto rounded" src="https://midas.umich.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/3/2019/01/Jagadish-150x150.png" style="height:200px;"/>
            </div>
          </div>
</div>
<br/>



## TBA
#### H. V. Jagadish - University of Michigan, U.S.A.


**Abstract:** TBA

**About the Speaker:** H. V. Jagadish	is Edgar F. Codd Distinguished University Professor and Bernard A Galler Collegiate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, and Director of the Michigan Institute for Data Science. Prior to 1999, he was Head of the Database Research Department at AT&T Labs, Florham Park, NJ. Professor Jagadish is well known for his broad-ranging research on information management, and has over 200 major papers and 38 patents, with an H-index of 101. He is a fellow of the ACM since 2003 and of AAAS since 2018. He currently chairs the board of the Academic Data Science Alliance and previously served on the board of the Computing Research Association (2009-2018). He has been an Associate Editor for the ACM Transactions on Database Systems (1992-1995), Program Chair of the ACM SIGMOD annual conference (1996), Program Chair of the ISMB conference (2005), a trustee of the VLDB (Very Large DataBase) foundation (2004-2009), Founding Editor-in-Chief of the Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment (2008-2014), and Program Chair of the VLDB Conference (2014). Since 2016, he is Editor of the Springer (previously Morgan & Claypool) Synthesis Lecture Series on Data Management. Among his many awards, he won the David E Liddle Research Excellence Award (at the University of Michigan) in 2008, the ACM SIGMOD Contributions Award in 2013, and the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award (at the University of Michigan) in 2019. His popular MOOC on Data Science Ethics is available on both EdX and Coursera.

[H V Jagadish website](https://web.eecs.umich.edu/~jag/)


<hr id="palpanas"> <!-- ------------------------------- -->


<div class="row justify-content-center">
          <div class="col-lg-4 col-md-6 text-center">
            <div class="service-box mt-5 mx-auto">
              <img class="mx-auto rounded" src="img/sebd2020-tova11.jpg" style="width:70%;"/>
            </div>
          </div>
</div>
<br/>

## Scalable Vector Analytics: A Story of Twists and Turns
#### Themis Palpanas - University Paris Cite, France

**Abstract:** Similarity search in high-dimensional data spaces was a relevant and
challenging data management problem in the early 1970s, when the first
solutions to this problem were proposed. Today, fifty years later, we
can safely say that the exact same problem is more relevant (from Time
Series Management Systems to Vector Databases) and challenging than
ever. Very large amounts of high-dimensional data are now omnipresent
(ranging from traditional multidimensional data to time series and deep
embeddings), and the performance requirements (i.e., response-time and
accuracy) of a variety of applications that need to process and analyze
these data have become very stringent and demanding. In these past fifty
years, high-dimensional similarity search has been studied in its many
flavors. Similarity search algorithms for exact and approximate, one-off
and progressive query answering. Approximate algorithms with and without
(deterministic or probabilistic) quality guarantees. Solutions for
on-disk and in-memory data, static and streaming data. Approaches based
on multidimensional space-partitioning and metric trees, random
projections and locality-sensitive hashing (LSH), product quantization
(PQ) and inverted files, k-nearest neighbor graphs and optimized linear
scans. Surprisingly, the work on data-series (or time-series) similarity
search has recently been shown to achieve the state-of-the-art
performance for several variations of the problem, on both time-series
and general high-dimensional vector data. In this talk, we will touch
upon the different aspects of this interesting story, present some of
the state-of-the-art solutions, and discuss open research directions.

**About the Speaker:** Themis Palpanas is an elected Senior Member of the French University
Institute (IUF), a distinction that recognizes excellence across all
academic disciplines, and Distinguished Professor of computer science
at the University Paris Cite (France), where he is director of the Data
Intelligence Institute of Paris (diiP), and director of the data
management group, diNo. He received the BS degree from the National
Technical University of Athens, Greece, and the MSc and PhD degrees from
the University of Toronto, Canada. He has previously held positions at
the University of California at Riverside, University of Trento, and at
IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, and visited Microsoft Research, and
the IBM Almaden Research Center. His interests include problems related
to data science (big data analytics and machine learning applications).
He is the author of 14 patents. He is the recipient of 3 Best Paper
awards, and the IBM Shared University Research (SUR) Award. His service
includes the VLDB Endowment Board of Trustees (2018-2023),
Editor-in-Chief for PVLDB Journal (2024-2025) and BDR Journal (2016-
2021), PC Chair for IEEE BigData 2023 and ICDE 2023 Industry and
Applications Track, General Chair for VLDB 2013, Associate Editor for
the TKDE Journal (2014-2020), and Research PC Vice Chair for ICDE 2020.

[Themis Palpanas website](https://helios2.mi.parisdescartes.fr/~themisp/)



<hr> <!-- ------------------------------- -->




